Now let's talk about Map.
So in this one, I asked you all
to actually implement your own
map function using some of these
helpers that we talked about.
So those are defined here.
And some of these especially like head and
tail, those terms they might
be a little bit new if you haven't worked
with other languages than JavaScript for
example, functional languages
like Clojure maybe,
which often use these terms,
head and tail for arrays.
They're not super native
terms to JavaScript.
But we're trying to use them
because again the nomenclature for
a lot of these functions in
the functional programming world might be
something that is part of what
that learning journey is.
Is like grasping that head is equivalent
to first element in an array.
So that's why we're using some of those
more kind of traditional functional
programming terms here.
Okay, so how is this map exercise?
Were we able to figure out a way to
implement map without calling array.map?
So what we have here is in my solution,
I have a recursive
implementation that has a base case
of if my array is empty, I'm done.
I return an empty array.
I might also have another base
case here of like, for example,
if there's exactly one
element in my array,
I return an array with the function
applied to that element, as well.
And then otherwise, I'm going to
return this recursive application.
And again we might want to have like
a function of concat instead of this
concat method, but array dot.concat
returns a new array with the two
arrays mushed together,
concatenated into a single array.
So it's not going to change the original
array, it's going to give me a new one.
So that seems okay for
our pure functional restrictions here.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take
the first thing out of the array,
the head of the array.
I'm gonna apply the function to it and
get a little array started with that.
And then concatenate whatever
the array is that comes back when
I recursively apply map with that same
function to the rest of the items
in the array which in functional land
is often called the tail of the array.
And be careful because tail does not
mean the last element of the array.
Which you might easily think
because head is the first element,
tail is a little different.
So if head is a single value,
tail is the whole rest of
the array except for the head.
>> [INAUDIBLE] The bottom
you used a double map.
And then you pass an argument into it and
so
if you look at all the examples
that I have seen is that it
really say objects or
array.map or array.filter.
And so how come just like that,
you got a consonant and
then you assigned it to the map without
using an array and things like that.
How does that work?
>> Right, so I'm understanding the
question right is how is this different
from doing wholes.map with whatever
the function is that I want to pass in,
and why am I doing it this way,
instead of this way?
And so again, this is really just
to build up our muscle memory,
build up our habit of using a functional
API where everything is functions.
And we're not thinking about objects and
their methods as ways
of manipulating them.
We're thinking about functions and
what inputs they need.
So in functional programming languages
like Clojure, for example, the API for
working with these things is often a lot
more like what you see on the left here,
where everything is functions and we pass
in whatever arrays we're operating on.
And so that's why we're trying to
get in the habit of converting
our regular JavaScript object
oriented dot method calling style
to this more functional style where
everything is an argument to a function.
That said, the result of this
in JavaScript is not gonna be
different unless we've bungled
our map implementation.
And so this is totally fine and
if you prefer to work in that
object-oriented style, go for it.
I think that it's really useful to get in
the habit of using this functional style
mostly because it forces us to think
about the functions before we think about
the objects, if you know what I mean.
And again, so it's about that mind shift.
Sorry.
>> Yeah, I do understand.
So usually when I use that object or
in orientated method [INAUDIBLE] style.
So [INAUDIBLE] I've seen what to do and
I've seen that one.
The way you use that array.marvel,
array.filter.
Well, yeah, I will try it out.
Yeah, thank you.
>> Yeah, super great point.
And again, this is totally valid
JavaScript and it's deterministic,
it's not gonna change things as long
as wholes doesn't change, which again,
everything is mutable in JavaScript,
so there's no guarantees there.
But again, this is really just
about changing our mindset.
Getting into a new programming paradigm is
really about changing the way you look at
the world of the program.
And so the reason we're focusing on these
functions is really to force us to think
about the world in terms of functions
instead of thinking about it in terms of
objects.
Okay, great questions.
And so hopefully these doubled and halved
applications were pretty straightforward.
But just again,
to give you an idea of what kind of
functions you can pass in
then to these map functions.
The challenge exercise if anybody got to
it was to figure out what function you
would have to pass to map to get an array
that is essentially this game Fizz Buzz.
If you haven't run into it before, there's
a Wikipedia link, you can read about it.
But essentially the rules are,
if a number is divisible by three,
you replace it with fizz.
If a number is divisible by five,
you replace it with buzz.
If it's divisible by both three and
five, it's fizz buzz.
So what we have here is kind of a series
of little checks which figure out whether
or not is divisible by three or five.
And then figure out which strings fizz or
buzz, we need to replace the number
with and then optionally putting
them together if they are necessary,
and otherwise just returning
the plain old number.
So that's one way you could
solve this exercise again,
there might be other really great
solutions that would also solve this and
produce the fizz buzz
array we're looking for.
But just a little mind bender there to
see how we can use map to play games too.